---
template: post
title: 'WIP: Do I know me?'
slug: do-i-know-me
draft: false
date: 2020-12-07T18:30:00.000Z
description: A sneak peak inside my mind.
category: 'Mind, Reflection'
tags:
  - Design
  - Typography
  - Web Development
---
Our mind is the most deceitful character we ever meet in our lives. As we grow up transitioning childhood this monster starts taking more control over our mind and thoughts. We listen to it like a loyal servant. We end up making shit load of mistakes as we progress in life. Some look smart but are disastrous while some are dumb but serendipitous. We reach a point where we are about to break ourself up for all the fuckups we have done. Then we start seeking help, some reach for therapy, some figure out by themselves. In my case by myself. I drowned myself reading and consuming blogs, articles, podcasts, books till I got overwhelmed with them to a point I had to stop consuming it else it would exactly do the reverse of what it was intended too that is to make me more depressed. After a point consumption of this content becomes similar to drug. 3 good years passed. 3 rounds of heart breaking, 3 rounds of job changes. I didn't stop making mistakes, but they reduced. The pattern of thoughts in my head started changing, I started catching my dirty mind misguiding me, tricking me. The current time where we are bombarded and exposed to shit load of attention seeking materials around be it social media, news, movies etc. This is like food for our mind. It enjoys it. Another thought pattern is the infatuation of material things around us. Mind says you want everything what we see, what everyone has. You see a movie and start liking the protagonist. He says you should become him. You listen to your favourite playlist, then he says you are good singer and become like him. This was how my mind would look if someone took a peak in the last decade. This was so unconscious that I never was aware of this happening, I believed everything what was sold to me by this monster. I had lost control to it, someone else was running the circus show inside my head. Now I come to talk about self Awareness. Or aka mindfulness or ton of other words meaning the same. It is this tiny superpower you acquire where you are completely aware of what's going on in your head when this monster takes over. The next time you see a Bentley or a Nike Jordan in-front you, your mind starts doing the regular action of planting an idea in your head. But this time you catch him and laugh at him. You mock him and say Fuck you, I know why you really want those. It's not because you really need them, it's because of the association you want to make by possessing these materialistic things. Evolution hasn't transformed us to something new, we are still are monkeys deep down inside. Craving every second attention from everything around us.

As I started writing this essay, I was so excited to open Netlify and start writing without acknowledging the fact that it doesn't have a draft mode. I cant trust my browser as it can close any time and I could loose all the things that I wrote. The irrational me made me do this unconsciously. Now I open my notion and move all the things here and I resume writing.

You have to stop listening to your mind when it says no don't do this, no you don't like this, screw this, I'm gonna skip it. Rather your mindset should be Fuck lets do it, lets figure it out. Do the thing right fucking now. Her's the intro for an article on productivity advice I read recently by Slava Akhmechet

> Do the work. That's all the productivity advice you need, and the only *useful* productivity advice you're ever going to get. You can direct your attention to a million optimizations— email, meetings, notes, calendar, time tracking, goals, todo lists, time estimates, prioritization frameworks, quantified self sensors, analytics, apps, documents, journaling. But don't. Ignore all this, and do the work. When you do the work, everything else optimizes itself.

Stop listening to your mind, is it tired? does it wanna rest? fuck you. Get the task done and move onto the next one. This should be the change in your mindset. And stop getting emotional with the task, detach any obsessions with a task, doesn't matter if you like it or not, tell yourself it doesn't matter. You are  gonna do it. All the dislikes, prejudices have to be discarded. All the baseless irrational thoughts that has shaped your beliefs from the reality are mostly flawed. Reality is true. You have a problem in-front of you or come one, think and you can solve it. Stop listening to the negative thoughts in your head. That thing is cunning and vicious, if you listen to you it it will never let you do what you aspire of. Identify it and tame yourself to ignore those thoughts. It's not gonna happen in a day or a week or a month. It's gonna take a good amount of time. For me it took 5-6 months where I started noticing my thought patterns have changed. Don't beat yourself for the mistakes or fuckups you make. Just do the right thing at the time with the available information you have. Accept the mistake if you have done before or if you have done one just now and move the fuck on. If you have a habit of reading, after a point stop the fuck and start applying what you have learnt. Learning something new and not applying is almost same as not having read anything. 

Every thoughts/assumptions/prejudice is all not necessarily true! Mind is a broken machine which uses emotions as lubricant to function. Accept the reality.

I wonder is it only me who is so abnormally worried and anxious of what am I going to do today, tomorrow, next week, next year. I did learn that everybody got shit going on inside their head. Everybody is figuring out life. Nobody has a fucking clue what they want to do or want to be. I also believe pop culture tries to sell us falsehood and unrealistic expectations that you gotta figure out your passion, your thing, your purpose. I don’t know how much of it is really true. What about people who have had success? Were they going through a similar phase or they did figure out things and their head was clear? Lately after reading (blog on productivity) It has become even more clear about being productivity and work. We are being sold bullshit from the mainstream media.
